MS510 TESTER FOR DIAGNOSTICS OF POWER STEERING SYSTEM
@D_10_IMG_000_PHOTO_MS510-tester-for-power-steering-system_cover

USER MANUAL

INTRODUCTION
Thank you for choosing the product of MSG Equipment.
The present user manual contains information about the purpose, equipment, technical specifications, and methodology for assessing the technical condition of power steering units.
Read carefully this manual before putting MS510 (hereinafter "the tester") into operation.
Due to the permanent improvements of the tester, the design and supply slip are subject to modifications that are not included to the present user manual.

1. APPLICATION
The MS510 tester is designed for diagnosing the power steering system in a vehicle without disassembling the units. After connecting the tester to the power steering system, it is possible to determine whether there is a malfunction in the pump or steering rack, and whether it is necessary to disassemble them for further diagnosis.

2. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Dimensions (L×W×H), mm	180×80×300
Weight, kg	1.5
Working fluid	Vehicle operating fluid (ATF)
Measured parameters	Working fluid pressure from 0 to 250 bar

3. EQUIPMENT SET
The equipment complete set includes:
Item name	Number of pcs
Tester MS510	1
MS00555 - Fitting Set	1
High pressure hoses (L-1100mm)	2
User Manual (card with QR code)	1

4. TESTER DESCRIPTION
The tester consists of the following main elements (see Fig. 1 @D_10_IMG_001_PHOTO_MS510-tester-general-view_fig1): 
Figure 1. General view of the tester @D_10_IMG_001_PHOTO_MS510-tester-general-view_fig1
1 – Pressure gauge.
2 – Mode selection valve.
3 – High-pressure hose for connection to the mainline.
4 and 5 – Quick-release coupling.
6 – High-pressure hose for connection to the pump.

5. APPROPRIATE USE
1. Use the tester only for its intended purpose (see section 1).
2. Operate the tester in a manner that protects the environment and natural resources of our planet. Do not allow leakage of working fluid into the ground or sewage.
3. To prevent the damage and the failure of the tester, do not make any modifications in the tester in your discretion. Any modifications can be effected by the official manufacturer only. Should the tester have defects contact the manufacturer or a dealer.
WARNING! The manufacturer is not responsible for any damage or injury to human health resulting from non-compliance with the requirements of this user manual.

5.1. Safety guidelines
1. The tester shall be operated by the workers qualified to work with certain types of equipment and received appropriate training in the safe operation. 
2. When working with the tester, use personal protective equipment such as safety goggles and gloves. Do not allow working fluid to come into contact with exposed areas of the body (in case of contact, rinse with warm water and soap).
3. Do not disconnect high-pressure hoses or remove quick-release couplings during operation.
4. Do not use damaged high-pressure hoses.

6. POWER STEERING SYSTEM DIAGNOSTICS
WARNING! When connecting the tester, ensure:
• the direction of fluid flow corresponds to the arrow on the tester body;
• the tightness of connections.
1. Connect the tester to the pump and the high-pressure mainline as shown in Fig. 2: @D_10_IMG_002_DIAGRAM_tester-connection-to-power-steering-system_fig2
- disconnect the high-pressure mainline from the pump;
- install transition fittings on the pump and mainline. 
2. Start the vehicle engine.
3. Sequentially perform 4 tests and based on the criteria outlined in Table 1, draw conclusions about the technical condition of the power steering system.
Test #1. Set valve 2 (Fig. 1) to position S. Measure the pressure in the vehicle's hydraulic system. 
Test #2. Briefly switch valve 2 to position P. The pressure gauge will show the maximum pressure generated by the pump.
WARNING! Do not switch valve 2 to position P for more than 5 seconds.
Figure 2: Connection of the tester to the power steering system:1 - High pressure line. @D_10_IMG_002_DIAGRAM_tester-connection-to-power-steering-system_fig2

Test #3. Set valve 2 to position S. Turn the steering wheel to the extreme left or right position. Measure the pressure in the vehicle's hydraulic system.
WARNING! Do not hold the steering wheel in the extreme position for more than 5 seconds.
Test #4. Valve 2 in position S. Turn the steering wheel to the extreme left, then to the extreme right position. Measure the pressure in each position.
4. Turn off the vehicle engine. Disconnect the tester from the vehicle's power steering system.

Table 1: Main indicators for diagnostics of the power steering system
No. of Tests	Steering wheel position	Manometer parametrs	Defect
		Valve in position P	Valve in position S	
1	Central	-	Above normal	Line contamination. Steering rack defect
			Normal	No
2	Central	Below normal	-	Pump defect
		Normal		No
3	Maximum extreme position	–	Differs from test 2 normal position	Steering rack defect
			Equals test 2 normal position	No
4	Maximum left/right extreme position	–	Pressure differs in extreme left and right positions	Steering rack defect
			Pressure is equal in extreme left and right positions	No
* Normal position is the parameter of faultless power steering system of a particular car.

7. TESTER MAINTENANCE
The tester is designed for long-term operation and does not have special maintenance requirements. However, to ensure maximum reliability, monitor the tightness of the tester's hydraulic connections and keep the tester clean.

7.1. Cleaning and care 
Use soft tissues or wipe cloths to clean the surface of the device with neutral detergents. Clean the display with a special fiber cloth and a cleaning spray for touch screens. To prevent corrosion, failure, or damage to the tester, do not use any abrasives or solvents.

8. RECYCLING
European WEEE Directive 2002/96/EC (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive) applies to the tester waste. 
Obsolete electronic equipment and electric appliances, including cables, hardware, and batteries, must be disposed of separately from household wastes. 
Use available waste collection systems to dispose of outdated equipment.
Proper disposal of old appliances prevents harm to the environment and personal health.