MS015 TESTER FOR DIAGNOSTICS OF ALTERNATOR'S VOLTAGE REGULATORS

DIAGNOSTICS MANUAL

4.2. Alternator diagnostics modes
If you choose the diagnostics of COM alternator the following information is displayed (fig. 7): @D_1_IMG_007_DIAGRAM_COM-alternator-diagnostics-screen_fig7
Figure 7. COM alternator diagnostics screen
1 – Diagnosed alternator type.
2 – buttons -V and +V modify the value of the set stabilizing voltage of alternator. Press once to change the value with 0.2V pitch.
3 – set stabilizing voltage.
4 – alternator output voltage - measured.
COM PR. – voltage regulator protocol. The following protocols are displayed: LIN1.3 (on screen - LIN1), LIN2.0 (on screen - LIN2).
ID – voltage regulator identification number. It's a unique number of the receiver of the commands from the engine control unit. When installing a new alternator into a car, it's important that ID corresponded to the original one, otherwise, a car won't "accept" the unit, and the control unit will indicate the alternator error.
COM SPEED – data transmission speed, between the voltage regulator and the car electronic control unit. At LIN protocol, the following the speed rates can be displayed:
• L – 2400 Bd (low);
• M – 9600 Bd (medium);
• H – 19200 Bd (high).
TYPE – voltage regulator connection type. The name of the protocol BSS is displayed, as well as 12 types of LIN protocol: A1, A2, A3, A4, B1, B2, B3, B4, C3, D1, D2, E1.
EXCITATION – current value in the winding coil of alternator excitation. This parameter is read from the voltage regulator by LIN protocol (the parameter is displayed in %).
ERRORS – indicator of errors that the regulator transmits to engine control unit. The following errors may happen:
• EL – electric;
• МЕС – mechanic;
• ТН – overheating.
Once the error is detected, it's highlighted by red.
SUPPLIER – the voltage regulator manufacturer.
SUPP. ID – the voltage regulator ID generated by the manufacturer.
BACK – exit from the diagnostics mode.

When you choose the mode of the diagnostics of the following alternator types: SIG, RLO, RVC, C KOREA, P/D, C JAP. alternator types, the following information can be displayed (fig. 8): @D_1_IMG_008_DIAGRAM_alternator-diagnostics-window-SIG-RLO-RVC_fig8
Figure 8. Alternator diagnostics window:SIG, RLO, RVC, C KOR., P/D, C JAP.
1 – Diagnosed alternator type.
2 – buttons -V and +V modify the value of the set stabilizing voltage of alternator. Press once to change the value with 0.2V pitch.
3 – set stabilizing voltage. For C JAP. alternator types, the OFF value is displayed – the voltage regulator operation mode that corresponds to the output voltage from 12.1 up to 12.7 V. Press once -V or +V to start the voltage regulator mode ON – the voltage regulator operation mode that corresponds to the output voltage from 14 up to 14.4 V.
4 – alternator output voltage - measured.
FR – frequency of PWM-signal that is transmitted by FR terminal.
DFM – duty ratio of PWM-signal, received through FR terminal, indicates on-condition rate of rotor winding.
5 – oscillogram of the signal that is transmitted by FR terminal. The measured signal is displayed either by 20 or 200 ms, to switch between them, press the chart once.

5.2. Alternator diagnostics procedure
The alternator diagnostics procedure is carried out as follows:
1. Referring to the alternator OEM, that is commonly indicated on the body or rear cover, find on the Internet the information on the alternator connector terminals.
2. Use the information in the Appendix 1 to determine the regulator type referring to the connector terminals.
3. Connect the tester to the alternator referring to the colour codes specified in p. 4. The tester is power supplied by alternator battery. Once the tester is on, the main menu will be displayed.
4. Choose the relevant alternator type in the tester menu and press TEST. The tester does into diagnostics mode.
4.1. If the tested alternator has COM connection terminal, wait until the tester identifies ID and TYPE of alternator.
5. Start the car engine and cut off all the load. Wait until the engine runs smoothly at idle.
WARNING! It's forbidden to exit the diagnostic mode while the engine runs because it will result in the extreme power surge generated by the alternator.

WARNING! If one of the black (B-, battery negative) and/or the red (B+, battery positive) crocodile clips has spontaneously disconnected, it's forbidden to connect it back while the engine runs.

5.1. The stabilization voltage rate shall become equal to 13.8V with the possible deviation ±0.2V.
5.2. For C JAPAN alternators, the stabilization voltage rate shall be within 12.1 and 12.7V.
6. Change the alternator voltage value by the buttons –V or +V within 13.2 and 14.8V. The measure voltage should change respectively, with the possible deviation ±0.2V.
6.1. For C JAPAN alternator, press the buttons -V or +V to change the alternator operation mode to ON. The stabilization voltage rate shall be within 14 and 14.4V.
7. Set any alternator voltage value by the buttons -V, +V within 13.2 and 14.8V. Increase the rotation frequency of the engine crankshaft to the medium rpm. At the same time, the voltage value on the tester should not change (the deviation ±0.2V is acceptable).
8. Without decreasing the engine crankshaft rpm, increase the alternator load by switching on the headlights, seat heating, windshield heating and other electric power consumers. The voltage value though should not change (the acceptable voltage drop - by 0.3V).
9. Stop the engine.
10. Disconnect the tester terminals.
11. Failure to comply with the one of the paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 – 8 indicates the alternator failures.

7. TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
Table with the possible problems and the solutions on their elimination:
Problem	Causes	Solutions
1. You cannot switch on the tester, or the measured parameters are displayed wrong.	Bad connection between the diagnostic cable and the tester connector.	Check the connection density.
1. You cannot switch on the tester, or the measured parameters are displayed wrong.The diagnostic cable is damaged.	Check the integrity of the diagnostic cable. If required, replace the diagnostic cable.
2. The touchscreen doesn't respond to the touches of the operator.	The touchscreen is damaged.	Contact the dealer.
3. The diagnostics mode cannot start.	Contact the dealer.	Contact the dealer.

APPENDIX 1
Connection of terminals to alternators
Code	Application	Type of alternator	Tester alligator test lead
B+	Battery (+)		B+
30			
A	(Ignition) Ignition start input		B+ add. wire
IG			
15			
AS	Alternator Sense	Terminal for measuring of battery voltage		
BVS	Battery Voltage Sense			
S	Sense			
B-	Battery (-)		B-
31			
E	(Earth) Earth, battery (-)		
D+	For the connection of indicating lamp that supplies the initial voltage excitation and indicates the alternator performance capacity.	Lamp	
I	Indicator		
IL	Illumination		
L	(Lamp) Output for the alternator performance capacity indicating lamp		
61			
FR	(Field Report) Output for the control of the alternator load by the engine control unit		FR
DFM	Digital Field Monitor		
M	Monitor		
LI	(Load Indicator) Similar to FR, just with the inverted signal		
D	(Drive) Input for the P-D regulator control, for the alternators Mitsubishi (Mazda) and Hitachi (Kia Sephia 1997-2000)	P/D	GC

Code	Application	Type of alternator	Tester alligator test lead
SIG	(Signal) Voltage code setting input	SIG	GC
D	(Digital) Input for voltage code setting on the American Ford, similar to SIG		
RC	(Regulator Control) Similar to SIG		
L(RVC)	(Regulated Voltage Control) Similar to SIG, with just the voltage variation range 11.0-15.5V. The control signal is supplied to the terminal L	RVC	
L(PWM)			
C	(Communication) Input for the control of voltage regulator by engine control unit. Korean cars.	C KOREA	
С (G)	Input for the control of voltage regulator by engine control unit. Japanese cars.	C JAPAN	
RLO	(Regulated Load Output) Regulator stabilization voltage control within11.8-15V (TOYOTA)	RLO	
COM	(Communication) The general references of the physical control interface and alternator diagnostics. The protocols BSD (Bit Serial Tester), BSS (Bit Synchronized Signal) or LIN (Local Interconnect Network) can be used	COM	
LIN	Direct reference to the control and diagnostics of alternator through the protocol LIN (Local Interconnect Network)		
DF	Rotor winding coil output Connection of the regulator with the rotor winding coil		
F			
FLD			
67			

Code	Application	Type of alternator	Tester alligator test lead
P	Output of one of the alternator stator winding coils It's used for the identification of the alternator excitation level by the voltage regulator		
S			
STA			
Stator			
W	(Wave) Output of one of the alternator stator winding coils - to connect the speed gauge in the diesel cars		
N	(Null) Stator winding coil center point output For the control of the performance capacity indicating lamp of alternator with the mechanical voltage regulator		
D	(Dummy) Empty, no connection, mainly in Japanese cars		
N/C	(No connect) No connection		
LRC (Regulator option)	(Load Response Control) Option for the delay of voltage regulator reaction to the alternator load increasing. Within 2.5-15 seconds. At the load increasing (light, cooling fan), the regulator smoothly adds the excitation voltage that makes the engine speed stable. It can be easily seen at idle.