MS015A TESTER FOR DIAGNOSTICS OF ALTERNATOR'S VOLTAGE REGULATORS

DIAGNOSTICS MANUAL

5.2. Alternator diagnostics procedure
The alternator diagnostics procedure is carried out as follows:
1. Referring to the alternator OEM, that is commonly indicated on the body or rear cover, find on the Internet the information on the alternator connector terminals.
2. Use the information in the Appendix 1 to determine the regulator type referring to the connector terminals.
3. Connect the tester to the car alternator according to the cable color coding see section 4 and appendix 1.
3.1. Connect clamp B+ to the plus output of the alternator. Clamp B- to the alternator case or to the minus terminal of the battery. The tester is powered from the battery, so the instrument will turn on and the main menu will be displayed on the screen (Fig. 6).
3.2. Connect GC and FR cable terminals to the terminals in the alternator connector.
4. Choose the relevant alternator type in the tester menu and press TEST. The tester does into diagnostics mode.
4.1. If the tested alternator has COM connection terminal, wait until the tester identifies ID and TYPE of alternator.
5. Start the car engine and cut off all the load. Wait until the engine runs smoothly at idle.
WARNING! It's forbidden to exit the diagnostic mode while the engine runs because it will result in the extreme power surge generated by the alternator.

WARNING! If one of the black (B-, battery negative) and/or the red (B+, battery positive) crocodile clips has spontaneously disconnected, it's forbidden to connect it back while the engine runs.

5.1. For 12V alternators, the stabilization voltage shall be set to 13.8V with a possible deviation of ±0.2V.
5.2. For 12V alternators of JAPAN type C, the stabilization voltage shall be set within the range of 12.1V to 12.7V.
5.3. For 24V alternators, the stabilization voltage shall be set to 28.4V with a possible deviation of ±0.2V.
6. Change the voltage value on the alternator with buttons "-V", "+V" within the range from 13.2 to 14.8V for 12V alternators and from 26.2 to 29.8V for 24V alternators. The measured voltage should change proportionally with a possible deviation of ±0.2 V.
6.1. For C JAPAN alternator, press the buttons -V or +V to change the alternator operation mode to ON. The stabilization voltage rate shall be within 14 and 14.4V.
7. Set any value of alternator voltage with "-V", "+V" buttons within the range from 13.2 to 14.8 V for 12V alternators and from 26.2 to 29.8 V for 24V alternators. Increase the engine crankshaft speed to medium rpm. At the same time, the voltage value on the tester should not change (the value may fluctuate with a tolerance of ±0.2V, which is normal).
8. Without decreasing the engine crankshaft rpm, increase the alternator load by switching on the headlights, seat heating, windshield heating and other electric power consumers. The voltage value though should not change (the acceptable voltage drop - by 0.3V).
9. Stop the engine.
10. Disconnect the tester terminals.
11. Failure to comply with the one of the paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 – 8 indicates the alternator failures.

7. TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
Table with the possible problems and the solutions on their elimination:
Problem	Causes	Solutions
1. You cannot switch on the tester, or the measured parameters are displayed wrong.	Bad connection between the diagnostic cable and the tester connector.	Check the connection density.
	The diagnostic cable is damaged.	Check the integrity of the diagnostic cable. If required, replace the diagnostic cable.
2. The touchscreen doesn't respond to the touches of the operator.	The touchscreen is damaged.	Contact technical support
3. The diagnostics mode cannot start.	Failure of the operating system	

APPENDIX 1
Connection of terminals to alternators
Code	Application	Type of alternator	Tester alligator test lead
B+	Battery (+)		B+
30			
A	(Ignition) Ignition start input		B+ add. wire
IG			
15			
AS	Alternator Sense	Terminal for measuring of battery voltage		
BVS	Battery Voltage Sense			
S	Sense			
B-	Battery (-)		B-
31			
E	(Earth) Earth, battery (-)		
D+	For the connection of indicating lamp that supplies the initial voltage excitation and indicates the alternator performance capacity.	Lamp	
I	Indicator		
IL	Illumination		
L	(Lamp) Output for the alternator performance capacity indicating lamp		
61			
FR	(Field Report) Output for the control of the alternator load by the engine control unit		FR
DFM	Digital Field Monitor		
M	Monitor		
LI	(Load Indicator) Similar to FR, just with the inverted signal		
D	(Drive) Input for the P-D regulator control, for the alternators Mitsubishi (Mazda) and Hitachi (Kia Sephia 1997-2000)	P/D	GC

Code	Application	Type of alternator	Tester alligator test lead
SIG	(Signal) Voltage code setting input	SIG	GC
D	(Digital) Input for voltage code setting on the American Ford, similar to SIG		
RC	(Regulator Control) Similar to SIG		
L(RVC)	(Regulated Voltage Control) Similar to SIG, with just the voltage variation range 11.0-15.5V. The control signal is supplied to the terminal L	RVC	
L(PWM)			
C	(Communication) Input for the control of voltage regulator by engine control unit. Korean cars.	C KOREA	
С (G)	Input for the control of voltage regulator by engine control unit. Japanese cars.	C JAPAN	
RLO	(Regulated Load Output) Regulator stabilization voltage control within11.8-15V (TOYOTA)	RLO	
COM	(Communication) The general references of the physical control interface and alternator diagnostics. The protocols BSD (Bit Serial Tester), BSS (Bit Synchronized Signal) or LIN (Local Interconnect Network) can be used	COM	
LIN	Direct reference to the control and diagnostics of alternator through the protocol LIN (Local Interconnect Network)		
PWM	The control of the operation of Valeo alternator that are installed into the cars with the Start-Stop option	PWM	
Stop motor Mode	The control of the operation of Valeo alternator that are installed into the cars with the Start-Stop option	I-STARS	
DF	Rotor winding coil output Connection of the regulator with the rotor winding coil		
F			
FLD			
67			
Code	Application	Type of alternator	Tester alligator test lead
P	Output of one of the alternator stator winding coils It's used for the identification of the alternator excitation level by the voltage regulator		
S			
STA			
Stator			
W	(Wave) Output of one of the alternator stator winding coils - to connect the speed gauge in the diesel cars		
N	(Null) Stator winding coil center point output For the control of the performance capacity indicating lamp of alternator with the mechanical voltage regulator		
D	(Dummy) Empty, no connection, mainly in Japanese cars		
N/C	(No connect) No connection		
LRC (Regulator option)	(Load Response Control) Option for the delay of voltage regulator reaction to the alternator load increasing. Within 2.5-15 seconds. At the load increasing (light, cooling fan), the regulator smoothly adds the excitation voltage that makes the engine speed stable. It can be easily seen at idle.