MS121 TESTER FOR DIAGNOSTICS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC VALVES AND CLUTCHES OF VEHICLE AIR
@D_5_IMG_000_PHOTO_MS121-tester-for-electromagnetic-valves-clutches_general-view

DIAGNOSTICS MANUAL

6. DIAGNOSIS OF THE ELECTROMAGNETIC CLUTCH SEPARATELY FROM THE AIR CONDITIONER COMPRESSOR 
Diagnosis is performed as follows:
1. Connect the tester to a 12V DC power source, and the tester's diagnostic menu will appear on the screen.
WARNING! Do not connect the yellow and green clamps to the battery, as this will damage the tester.
2. Connect the green wires to the electromagnetic clutch. The polarity of the connection does not matter.
3. Press the "Select" button on the tester – the measurement results will be displayed on the tester screen.
3.1. The electromagnetic clutch can be considered functional based on the following indicators:
•The "Current" value should be between 2 and 4A;
•The "Voltage" value should approximately match the power source voltage;
•The absence of "CB" or "SC" indicators on the display;
•The electromagnetic clutch can magnetize iron objects.
4. After the diagnostic process, disconnect the tester wires from the battery and the clutch.

7. DIAGNOSIS OF THE ELECTROMAGNETIC CLUTCH AND ELECTROMAGNETIC VALVE ON THE CAR
Diagnosis of the electromagnetic valve is performed as part of the air conditioner compressor without removing it from the car (see Fig. 6 @D_5_IMG_009_DIAGRAM_checking-electromagnetic-valve-clutch-on-car_fig6). The electromagnetic clutch can be checked in the same way. The diagnosis is performed as follows:
1. Connect the refrigerant pressure gauge set (manifold) to the service ports of the system.
2. Connect the yellow wires to the electromagnetic valve.
3. Connect the black and red wires to the car battery, and the tester's diagnostic menu will appear on the screen.
WARNING! If the valve or clutch connector has a single contact, use an external battery to power the tester. Connecting it to the car battery will result in an error.

Figure 6. Diagram of checking the electromagnetic valve and clutch on the car @D_5_IMG_009_DIAGRAM_checking-electromagnetic-valve-clutch-on-car_fig6:
1 – Compressor; 2 – Electromagnetic clutch connector; 3 – Electromagnetic valve connector; 4 – Service ports; 5 – Manifold gauge set.

4. Press the "Select" button on the tester – the measurement results will be displayed on the tester screen.
4.1. Check the "CB" or "SC" indicators to ensure there is no open circuit or short circuit in the valve. If one of them is on, the valve is faulty.
7. If there is no open or short circuit in the valve, start the car engine.
6. Use the "Up" and "Down" buttons to change the PWM signal duty cycle on the valve. With a functional valve, changing the degree of its opening (Duty, %) will change the pressure in the high-pressure (HP) and low-pressure (LP) lines. The absence of these changes indicates a faulty valve. 
7. After the diagnostic process, stop the car engine and disconnect the tester wires from the battery and the compressor.