MS502M TEST BENCH FOR DIAGNOSTICS OF POWER STEERING RACKS
@D_8_IMG_000_PHOTO_MS502M-test-bench-for-power-steering-racks_cover

DIAGNOSTICS MANUAL

5.2. Preparing the bench for operation
The bench is delivered packaged. Unpack the bench. After unpacking, ensure that the bench is intact and free of any damage. If damage is found, contact the manufacturer or sales representative before turning on the bench.
The bench should be placed on a solid, level horizontal surface. If necessary, level the bench using the adjustable feet. When installing and moving the bench, hold it exclusively by the base (frame). Ensure a minimum clearance of 0.6 meters from the rear of the bench for servicing.
Before operating the bench, it is necessary to:
1) Fill with new ATF oil (see section 7.1).
WARNING! To avoid malfunctions of the bench and the units being diagnosed, use only new ATF oil.
2) Connect to a 400V electrical network using the socket provided with the bench, following the L1 L2 L3 N PE markings inside the socket when connecting to the power supply.
3) Turn on the automatic switch – voltage relay (see position 7 in Fig. 1).
WARNING! The bench has a phase relay located next to the automatic switch. If the red indicator on the phase relay lights up after connecting the bench to the 400V network, the bench will not turn on. In this case, swap any two adjacent phases in the socket, e.g., L1 and L2.
4) Connect the compressed air source to the MS522 vise.

6. STEERING RACK DIAGNOSTICS
The sequence of diagnostic operations on the bench is as follows:
1. Turn on the bench.
2. Secure the rack in the vise.
WARNING! Be careful to avoid injuring your fingers.
3. Install limit tips or tie rods on the ends of the steering rack shaft.
4. Mount a suitable fitting on the rack.
5. Connect the high-pressure hoses to the rack as shown in Figure 2. @D_8_IMG_002_DIAGRAM_steering-rack-connection-to-bench_fig2
WARNING! Strictly observe the connection of high and low pressure. Incorrect connection can lead to sudden spontaneous rotation of the steering wheel shaft, causing injury.
6. Secure a tool for rotating the spool valve shaft (it is recommended to use universal locking pliers).
7. Turn on the bench pump by pressing the START button.

Figure 2. Connecting the steering rack to the bench @D_8_IMG_002_DIAGRAM_steering-rack-connection-to-bench_fig2:
1 - Low-pressure fitting; 2 - High-pressure fitting;
3 - High-pressure line; 4 - Low-pressure line.

8. Measure the pressure and fluid flow readings at different positions of the spool valve.
8.1. Move the rack shaft right/left by smoothly rotating the spool valve shaft to the stop.
8.2. Based on the readings of pressure gauge 4 and flowmeter 1 (see Fig. 1) and the criteria outlined in Table 1, determine the condition of the steering rack.
9. Turn off the bench pump with the STOP button and switch off the bench.
10. Disconnect the bench from the rack.

Table 2. Main indicators for diagnostics of steering rack
Steering rack shaft position	Meter indication	Leak	Defect
	Flow	Pressure		
All positions of operating area without rotation of pinion shaft	Maximum, generated bу the pump	Minimum	No	No
All over operating area when rotating pinion shaft	Insignificant indication increase from maximum	Insignificant indication increase from minimum	No	No
Maximum extreme position	Minimum	Maximum, generated by the pump	No	No
Maximum extreme position	No drop to minimum	No increase to maximum	No	Wear out of valve gear. Damage of Teflon ring of hydraulic cylinder piston
When supplying pressure, spontaneous shaft rotation	–	–	No	Failure of valve gear *
In any position	–	–	Yes	Wear out of seals
* standard for particular power steering racks. For example, Alfa Romeo 145, Audi 80
