MS511 TESTER FOR DIAGNOSTICS OF POWER STEERING SYSTEM
@D_11_IMG_000_PHOTO_MS511-tester-for-power-steering-system_cover

DIAGNOSTICS MANUAL

6. POWER STEERING SYSTEM DIAGNOSTICS
WARNING! Before you start checking the system, make sure the connections are tight and that the high-pressure hoses are properly connected.
1. Connect the tester to the pump and the high-pressure mainline as shown in Fig. 2: @D_11_IMG_002_DIAGRAM_tester-connection-to-power-steering-system_fig2
- disconnect the high-pressure mainline from the pump;
- install transition fittings on the pump and mainline;
- connect the high pressure hoses to the tester and to the hydraulic system:
• from pump to connection - "INLET";
• from the high-pressure line to the connection - "OUTLET".
2. Start the vehicle engine.
3. Sequentially perform 4 tests and based on the criteria outlined in Table 1, draw conclusions about the technical condition of the power steering system.
Test #1. Set valve 2 (Fig. 1) to position "SYSTEM". Measure the pressure in the vehicle's hydraulic system. 
Figure 2: Connection of the tester to the power steering system:1 - High pressure line. @D_11_IMG_002_DIAGRAM_tester-connection-to-power-steering-system_fig2

Test #2. Briefly switch valve 2 to position "PUMP". The pressure gauge will show the maximum pressure generated by the pump. At the same time the flow will drop to zero.
WARNING! Do not switch valve 2 to position P for more than 5 seconds.
Test #3. Set valve 2 to position "SYSTEM". Turn the steering wheel to the extreme left or right position. Measure the pressure and flow in the vehicle's hydraulic system.
WARNING! Do not hold the steering wheel in the extreme position for more than 5 seconds.
Test #4. Valve 2 in position "SYSTEM". Turn the steering wheel to the extreme left, then to the extreme right position. Measure the pressure and flow in the vehicle's hydraulic system.
4. Turn off the vehicle engine. Disconnect the tester from the vehicle's power steering system.

Table 1: Main indicators for diagnostics of the power steering system
No. of Tests	Valve position	Steering wheel position	Meter indication	Defect
			Flow	Pressure	
1	Fully unscrewed to the System position	Central	Different from normal	Different from normal	Line contamination. Steering rack defect
			Normal	Normal	No
2	Fully screwed in Pump position	Central	Decrease to zero	Below normal	Pump defect
			Decrease to zero	Normal	No
3	Fully unscrewed to the System position	Maximum extreme position	No decrease to zero	Differs from test 2 normal position	Steering rack defect
			Decrease to zero	Equals test 2 normal position	No
4	Fully unscrewed to the System position	Maximum left/right extreme position	No decrease to zero	Pressure differs in extreme left and right positions	Steering rack defect
			Decrease to zero	Pressure is equal in extreme left and right positions	No
* Normal position is the parameter of faultless power steering system of a particular car.